=pod

=head1 NAME

Shell::Config::Generate - Portably generate config for any shell

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

With this start up:

 use Shell::Guess;
 use Shell::Config::Generate;
 
 my $config = Shell::Config::Generate->new;
 $config->comment( 'this is my config file' );
 $config->set( FOO => 'bar' );
 $config->set_path(
   PERL5LIB => '/foo/bar/lib/perl5',
               '/foo/bar/lib/perl5/perl5/site',
 );
 $config->append_path(
   PATH => '/foo/bar/bin',
           '/bar/foo/bin',
 );

This:

 $config->generate_file(Shell::Guess->bourne_shell, 'config.sh');

will generate a config.sh file with this:

 # this is my config file
 export FOO='bar';
 export PERL5LIB='/foo/bar/lib/perl5:/foo/bar/lib/perl5/perl5/site';
 if [ -n "$PATH" ] ; then
   export PATH=$PATH:'/foo/bar/bin:/bar/foo/bin';
 else
   export PATH='/foo/bar/bin:/bar/foo/bin';
 fi;

and this:

 $config->generate_file(Shell::Guess->c_shell, 'config.csh');

will generate a config.csh with this:

 # this is my config file
 setenv FOO 'bar';
 setenv PERL5LIB '/foo/bar/lib/perl5:/foo/bar/lib/perl5/perl5/site';
 if ( $?PATH ) then;
   setenv PATH "$PATH":'/foo/bar/bin:/bar/foo/bin';
 else
   setenv PATH '/foo/bar/bin:/bar/foo/bin';
 endif ;

and this:

 $config->generate_file(Shell::Guess->cmd_shell, 'config.cmd');

will generate a C<config.cmd> (Windows C<cmd.exe> script) with this:

 rem this is my config file
 set FOO=bar
 set PERL5LIB=/foo/bar/lib/perl5;/foo/bar/lib/perl5/perl5/site
 if defined PATH (set PATH=%PATH%;/foo/bar/bin;/bar/foo/bin) else (set PATH=/foo/bar/bin;/bar/foo/bin)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides an interface for specifying shell configurations
for different shell environments without having to worry about the 
arcane differences between shells such as csh and sh.

It does not modify the current environment, but it can be used to
create shell configurations which will modify the environment.

This module uses L<Shell::Guess> to represent the different types
of shells that are supported.  In this way you can statically specify
just one or more shells:

 #!/usr/bin/perl
 use Shell::Guess;
 use Shell::Config::Generate;
 my $config = Shell::Config::Generate->new;
 # ... config config ...
 $config->generate_file(Shell::Guess->bourne_shell, 'foo.sh');
 $config->generate_file(Shell::Guess->c_shell, 'foo.csh');

This will create foo.sh and foo.csh versions of the configurations,
each in the appropriate format.

Alternatively you can use the shell that is being used by the user:

 #!/usr/bin/perl
 use Shell::Guess;
 use Shell::Config::Generate;
 my $config = Shell::Config::Generate->new;
 # ... config config ...
 print $config->generate(Shell::Guess->running_shell);

In the latter example you can eval the output of your script using 
your shell's back ticks to import the configuration into the shell.

 #!/bin/sh
 # works in sh
 eval `script.pl`

 #!/bin/csh
 # also works in csh
 eval `script.pl`

=head2 Shell::Config::Generate->new

creates an instance of She::Config::Generate.

=head1 METHODS

There are two types of instance methods for this class:

=over 4

=item * modifiers

adjust the configuration in an internal portable format

=item * generators

generate shell configuration in a specific format given
the internal portable format stored inside the instance.

=back

The idea is that you can create multiple modifications
to the environment without worrying about specific shells, 
then when you are done you can create shell specific 
versions of those modifications using the generators.

=head2 $config-E<gt>set( $name => $value )

Set an environment variable.

=head2 $config-E<gt>set_path( $name => @values )

Sets an environment variable which is stored in standard
'path' format (Like PATH or PERL5LIB).  In UNIX land this 
is a colon separated list stored as a string.  In Windows 
this is a semicolon separated list stored as a string.

This will replace the existing path value if it already
exists.

=head2 $config-E<gt>append_path( $name => @values );

Appends to an environment variable which is stored in standard
'path' format.  This will create a new environment variable if
it doesn't already exist, or add to an existing value.

=head2 $config-E<gt>prepend_path( $name => @values );

Prepend to an environment variable which is stored in standard
'path' format.  This will create a new environment variable if
it doesn't already exist, or add to an existing value.

=head2 $config-E<gt>comment( $comment )

This will generate a comment in the appropriate format.

=head2 $config-E<gt>shebang( [ $location ] )

This will generate a shebang at the beginning of the configuration,
making it appropriate for use as a script.  For non UNIX shells this
will be ignored.  If specified, $location will be used as the 
interpreter location.  If it is not specified, then the default
location for the shell will be used.

=head2 $config-E<gt>echo_off

For DOS/Windows configurations (C<command.com> or C<cmd.exe>), issue this as the
first line of the config:

 @echo off

=head2 $config-E<gt>echo_on

Turn off the echo off (that is do not put anything at the beginning of
the config) for DOS/Windows configurations (C<command.com> or C<cmd.exe>).

=head2 $config-E<gt>generate( $shell )

Generate shell configuration code for the given shell.
$shell is an instance of L<Shell::Guess>.

=head2 $config-E<gt>generate_file( $shell, $filename )

Generate shell configuration code for the given shell
and write it to the given file.  $shell is an instance 
of L<Shell::Guess>.  If there is an IO error it will throw
an exception.

=head1 CAVEATS

The test suite tests this module's output against the actual
shells that should understand them, if they can be found in
the path.  You can generate configurations for shells which
are not available (for example C<cmd.exe> configurations from UNIX or
bourne configurations under windows), but the test suite only tests
them if they are found during the build of this module.

There are probably more clever or prettier ways to 
append/prepend path environment variables as I am not a shell
programmer.  Patches welcome.

Only UNIX and Windows are supported so far.  Patches welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Graham Ollis.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

